## Welcome to GitHub Pages

You can use the [editor on GitHub](https://github.com/k98berry/k98berry.github.io/edit/master/index.md) to maintain and preview the content for your website in Markdown files.
Whenever you commit to this repository, GitHub Pages will run [Jekyll](https://jekyllrb.com/) to rebuild the pages in your site, from the content in your Markdown files.

## What Software Engineering means to me (Homework 1)
Software Engineering to me is a foundational building block in the computer science field. It is a basis on truly learning how to code and develop for the real world. While this class may be challenging, it is important to understand the foundations this class is going to present, and is going to be vital for future positions and jobs hopefully to come. I hope to leave this class with a lot of real world examples and understanding of what I am about to get myself in to when I go into the job field.

## Why I am taking Software Engineering(Homework 2)
I'm taking software engineering because I personally feel like it is going to be one of the most important classes I take at Xavier. I feel like this class will translate in to real world application a lot, so I dont wanna be on the wrong side of the road and not take it. I also have loved most of my classes involving CS, so I hope to feel the same about this one. I hope to get tons of new coding experience out of this class, and to learn some new problem solving and debugging strategies.

## Chapter 1 Blog (Homework 3)
Chapter 1 of The Pragmatic Programmer is very interesting and not what I was expecting for the topics of discussion. This section is more about practice and style, and not necessarily coding. One of my favorite parts of the section was the "Broken Window Theory". this theory simply put states that once there is a broken window in a building or graffiti on the walls, the building and it's inhabitants will believe that keeping the place clean is not a priority, and the building will deteriorate cleanliness wise. This same approach can be taken to our code. Bad code and poor style makes us prone to more clutter, so you must nip it in the butt when you see it, or when you go to update and refurbish. Other than these topics, the rest was fairly straight forward, but still a worthy read.

## Chapter 2 Blog (Homework 4)
Chapter 2 of the Pragmatic Programmer is all about useful tips and tricks for coding, and how to keep everything relevant in years to come. My favorite part of this chapter when it gave the analogy of the "Tracer Bullets". I had never heard any sort of advice like that before so it was interesting how the book related it to the real world. Overall this chapter did seem a little repetitive though, which is ironic because there was a section not being repetitive. A lot of the points they made in the organization sections were stated multiple times, just in different context. Considering that the chapter is already fairly long, it made me lose focus of learning through this reading. That is the only thing I would change or disagree with about this chapter.

## Chapter 4 Blog (Homework 6)
Chapter 4 of the Pragmatic Programmer talks a lot about different ways to debug your program before the debugging has even started. It provides insight to how to properly use assertions, how to keep your code "under a contract", and when it is proper to crash your program, before something very harmful happens. The most suprising thing to me about this chapter is that it is actually encouraged to crash your program if there is something wrong with it. I had always figured that crashing was the last thing you wanted to happen, but if you have an issue with your program, it is best that it is noticed and crashes rather than it goes unnoticed and lingers in your code. Overall this was one of the more boring chapters so far in my opinion, just because it was just a lot of different choices on how to properly keep your code under contract, and when it's appropriate to do so.

## Chapter 7 Blog (Homework 7)
Chapter 7 of the Pragmatic Programmer talks a lot about what we have been talking about in class about project requirements and features, and how to go from a blank piece of paper to a full-fledged program without all the freaking out and procrastination. Some of the things they suggest in this chapter refer to breaking down all the different requirements into things that can highlight what a programmer is supposed to do, and slowly build it from the ground up. One of the things they warn about is not over-specifying, because you do want to give some freedom to the coder, and let them find their own solution. My favorite part of the chapter was actually when it was talking about thinking outside the box, and showed us the four posts problem, which tells you to connect the four posts with three lines. It's a fun quick way to show how thinking in a different manner can simplify your problem, which is a very important skill in computer science.

## The 12-Factor App Blog (Homeowrk 9)
The Twelve Factor App os a website that sets standards for how an application should be handled and set up. These "Twelve Factors" are all some sort of rule that you should follow to have the best application possible, and to keep it organized. This website is useful because it explains how to set everything up when it comes to code organization, version control, and other things as well. I could see myself going back to this website just to see the most efficient way to start something, or how to keep it maintained. It was also cool to see that this article talked about back-end services specifically, which is the group that I am a part of for our Software Engineering project. The only thing that was tough for me about this article was some of the specific examples they used I had never heard of, but I guess that is what stack overflow is for. Overall I would see our group structuring our project how this article recommends, because most of us have never done anything like this before and would not know where to start. Excited to see what our group can do with this project as well. 


